docs/notebooks.rst, before:

Notebooks
=========

How to clean up a notebook for us to feature in the README:

1. Make sure that the notebook meets a high standard in general:

   1. high-quality code
   2. illuminating data analysis
   3. clear communication of what you’re doing and your findings
   4. as short as possible, but no shorter
   5. this `random style guide`_ I found in a few minutes of Googling
      seems good, but it’s not our official style guide or anything

2. Do the following specific things to clean up:

   1. as much as possible, avoid showing extraneous output from cells

      1. you can use the ``%%capture`` magic to suppress all output from
         a cell (helpful if a function in the cell prints something)
      2. you can add a ``;`` at the end of the last line in a cell to
         suppress printing the return value of the line

   2. think about what cells the reader really needs to see vs. which
      ones just have to be there for setup or whatnot. Collapse the
      latter.
   3. use the latest version of ``ergo``
   4. pull out any code that's not central to the main point of the model
      into separate .py files. See the "Import data nad models" section of
      `El Paso COVID predictions notebook`_ for an example of how to do this.
   5. make sure that the notebook can run as a Colab on a hosted runtime
      (don’t rely on running it on a local runtime)
   6. make sure that any secrets like passwords are removed from the
      notebook

All of the featured notebooks in our README should be exemplars of the
above, so refer to those to see what this looks like in practice.

.. _random style guide: https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/blob/master/guides/jupyter-notebooks.md
.. _El Paso COVID predictions notebook: https://github.com/oughtinc/ergo/blob/master/notebooks/el-paso.ipynb

Commit message:

update notebook docs and add contrib docs

docs/notebooks.rst, after:

Notebooks
=========

How to clean up a notebook for us to feature in the README:

1. Make sure that the notebook meets a high standard in general:

   1. high-quality code
   2. illuminating data analysis
   3. clear communication of what you’re doing and your findings
   4. as short as possible, but no shorter
   5. this `random style guide`_ I found in a few minutes of Googling
      seems good, but it’s not our official style guide or anything


2. Do the following specific things to clean up:
   
   1. Make sure the notebook is saved without output in the ``src/``
      repo. This can be accomplished by running ``make scrub``
   2. as much as possible, avoid showing extraneous output from cells
      
      1. you can use the ``%%capture`` magic to suppress all output
         from a cell (helpful if a function in the cell prints
         something)
      2. you can add a ``;`` at the end of the last line in a cell to
         suppress printing the return value of the line
      3. think about what cells the reader really needs to see
         vs. which ones just have to be there for setup or
         whatnot. Collapse the latter.
      
   3. use the latest version of ``ergo``
   4. make sure that any secrets like passwords are removed from the
      notebook
   5. Pull out any code not central to the main point of the model
      into a module in ``ergo/contrib/``. See :doc:`contrib` for
      details.
      
3. "Deploy" the notebook
   
    1. Run the notebook start to finish in a public runtime
       environment like Colab. Do not rely on running it on a local
       runtime. Save the notebook with output in ``/build``
   

All of the featured notebooks in our README should be exemplars of the
above, so refer to those to see what this looks like in practice.

.. _random style guide: https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/blob/master/guides/jupyter-notebooks.md
.. _El Paso COVID predictions notebook: https://github.com/oughtinc/ergo/blob/master/notebooks/el-paso.ipynb
